In this section of the course,
we'll learn about c++ functions.
Functions allow us to divide
our programs into modular units
of executable code and call and
reuse these units as we wish.
Functions are very powerful
abstraction mechanism.
You've already seen functions
defined. The main function that
we've been using in every program.
And you've also used some
functions such as getline and the
c-style string functions, string
copy, string length and others.
In this section, we'll
understand what functions are
and why they're so useful.
Then we'll look at
functions in detail.
First, we'll see how to define
functions and create function
prototypes that make our functions
useful anywhere in our code.
As we've already seen, when we
call a function, we usually send
information to the function.
This information is sent in the
form of function parameters.
We'll see how to define these
parameters and exactly how they work.
Functions also usually return
some kind of information to us
when they're done processing.
For example, if we have a function
that calculates the square root of a
number, well, that function expects
the number, and it will return to
us the square root of the number,
which we can use however we wish.
Functions can also
take many parameters.
And in some cases, we want to
default the value of some of
those parameters, so we don't
have to provide them every time.
We'll learn how to set these
default values for parameters to
make our code easier to write.
Then we'll learn how to pass arrays
to functions, and how to work
with them inside the function.
I'll discuss references
in the next section.
But we'll look at how we can
pass information to a function
efficiently by avoiding copying.
We'll also see how we can
change past information as
well as protect it from change.
Then we'll discuss inline functions.
Inline functions are functions
that the compiler optimizes
to avoid the overhead involve
when we call functions.
Remember, when we use the auto
keyword to allow the compiler to
deduce the type of a variable? Well,
we can also use the auto keyword
to allow the compiler to deduce the
type of the function return value.
This is pretty cool and it can
save us from writing a lot of
unnecessarily complex code.
Finally, we'll learn
about recursive functions.
These are functions
that call themselves.
You might be wondering why
would a function call itself.
You'll see it's pretty cool
and it can help solve a class
of problems that would be more
complex to solve without recursion.
At the end of this section, we'll
do a challenge project, and we'll
be well on our way to starting to
learn object-oriented programming.
Let's get started.